In this lesson we are gonna be looking at how to
upgrade Laravel app from version five point eight
to 6.0 LTS.
Note that there's no version 5.9 as you could predicted before.
So here I have read everything in this page
and I think
what we need to care about regarding to our
Laravel Q/A app are only two things. Upgrade
Laravel framework dependency as well as third party library.
And update email verification in our core application.
After we've done that we'll be using Github comparison
tool to see other file changes and then apply
that to our core applications file.
Also note that before you decide to upgrade to Laravel
version 6 you need to upgrade your PHP version
to 7.2 or higher.
And I think you should do that just in case
you're still using PHP version 7.1 because if
you see here PHP 7.1 will no longer be actively maintenance
as of December 2019.
Here I'm using
PHP 7.3
so I got to go.
All right let's change the working directory to our Laravel app
here
let me check my level version by saying: php
artisan --version my current level version is five
point eight point twenty three.
All right
as always before we upgrade to the newer version
let's create a new branch to isolate all changes
that we will make: git checkout
-b
and here I'm gonna call laravel-v6.0
OK
let's go back to our browser, and here
the first thing that we need to do is update our Laravel
framework dependency to version 6.0 in our composer
dot json
Also we need to examine any third party
packages that consumed by our app.
So to do that let's scroll all the way down
then hit this GitHub comparison tool
hit the file changes
make sure you hit this split mode and
then let's find composer.json. Okay
there we go.
So here we need to change our php version from
seven point one point three to seven point two.
Then we need to change laravel framework from five
point eight to six point o. In require dev section
we see that these packages are no longer needed.
They replaced with this new package facade ignition
which is the new and better error page for Laravel
and here for php unit
we need to change from from 7.5 to 8.0.
So let's go back to our editor. Let's pull open the composer.json, go to require section. And here
let's change this to seven point two
then change this version to six point 0.
here we have a couple of third body packages such
as doctrine, Laravel nexmo notification channel,
laravel slack notification channel and purifier.
I have checked all of these and I'm sure
they are compatible with Level 6.0.
So just in case you're using other library then make
sure it's compatible with the newer version of
Laravel.
All right, let's go back to our browser
let me copy this line
back to the editor. I'll move
this up and I'll select these lines and replace with this line.
Don't forget the comma here. Also
I'll change this php unit to 8.0. Alright
let's save this changes, go to our terminal and type:
composer update and hopefully we'll not get into any
error.
While it's updating
let's go back to the upgrade guide
let's jump to e-mail verification.
Here we go
so here to prevent possible csrf attack e-mail
verification has been updated from a get route
to a post. So let's copy this lines.
Head back to our editor then open verify blade php
here let's select both of these lines,
and paste the code.
Let's indent a little bit.
All right
let me check my terminal
I get a bunch of errors here
it looks like this ever happened on purifier. Let me
go back to my editor and see the composer.json
OK here I forgot to change the purifier version
to version 3.0. Let's save this, back to my
terminal
and here I'll rerun composer update.
While it's doing its things
let's head back over to our browser and yeah I
think that's all we need to follow from this page.
And now let's switch to github comparison tool to see other
file changes and apply them in our core application.
Now
while I'm doing this thing I'm not talking anything
and I'll fast forward the video to save the time
All right let's save  all changes.
And let's go back to our terminal. Here we have no error
that means Laravel framework dependency as
well as temporary library successfully updated.
Now let's make some taste to make sure that
our application is still working just fine.
Okay great
our application still working just fine as before.
And with that let's go to our terminal
kill the server
and commit all changes into our git repo: git add all,
git commit -m update to laravel version
six point o
git checkout master
git merge laravel dash v six point o. Now let's
push to our remote repo by saying git push
origin master
and then git push origin laravel version six point o
okay congratulation,
now your application updated to laravel version 6.0
and you keep your application up to date.